[13.0][MIG] delivery_ups_oca: Migration 13.0 + Refactor (#401)
OCA/delivery-carrier: delivery_ups_oca/README.rst

.. |badge1| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/maturity-Production%2FStable-green.png
    :target: https://odoo-community.org/page/development-status
    :alt: Production/Stable
.. |badge2| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/licence-AGPL--3-blue.png
    :target: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0-standalone.html
    :alt: License: AGPL-3
.. |badge3| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/github-OCA%2Fdelivery--carrier-lightgray.png?logo=github
    :target: https://github.com/OCA/delivery-carrier/tree/13.0/delivery_ups_oca
    :alt: OCA/delivery-carrier
.. |badge4| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/weblate-Translate%20me-F47D42.png
    :target: https://translation.odoo-community.org/projects/delivery-carrier-13-0/delivery-carrier-13-0-delivery_ups_oca
    :alt: Translate me on Weblate
.. |badge5| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/runbot-Try%20me-875A7B.png
    :target: https://runbot.odoo-community.org/runbot/99/13.0
    :alt: Try me on Runbot

|badge1| |badge2| |badge3| |badge4| |badge5| 

This module adds `UPS <https://ups.com>`_ to the available carriers.

It allows you to register shippings, generate labels, get rates from order, read shipping states and

> cancel shipments using UPS webservice, so no need of exchanging any kind of file.

Reviewer: I see no mention here of getting rates for the shipping

Author: Sorry, but "`get rates from order`" is intended to say that in a simplified way.

Reviewer: I didn't see it, sorry. Then I think it's enough, but explain on the usage about how to do it (although being something not specific from UPS, this is user documentation, that can repeat certain parts if convenient).

Author: Ok, I have added more explanation about it.

**Table of contents**

.. contents::
   :local:

Configuration
=============

To configure this module, you need to:

#. Add a carrier account with delivery type ``ups`` and fill in your credentials

> #. Configure the required fields of the UPS tab with your account data* https://wwwapps.ups.com

Reviewer: Specify which fields and the URL seems incorrect. Another thing is that RST syntax doesn't allow `*` as footnotes. Use the proper one or don't put it as footnote (see my following suggestion).

I also miss something about the service code, and about packaging.

Author: Ok, I'm going to change the URL to https://wwwapps.ups.com/ppc/ppc.html
According to these comment https://github.com/OCA/delivery-carrier/pull/401#discussion_r684116111 I don't know where the fields to fill in are because I don't have a UPS account to verify it.

Reviewer: I mean in Odoo, not in UPS. Mention the required fields, the "Track update..." field, etc.

Author: I have specified that it is in Odoo and that all the required fields in the UPS tab have to be filled in.

#. If yo have "Tracking state update sync" checked all delivery orders state check will be done querying UPS services.

> * You will be necessary to request access key from https://www.ups.com/upsdeveloperkit/manageaccesskeys?loc=es_ES

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE** You need to request an access key from https://www.ups.com/upsdeveloperkit/manageaccesskeys?loc=es_ES for using the webservice.
```

Usage
=====

You have to set the created shipping method in the delivery order to ship:

> * When the picking is 'Transferred', a *Create Shipping Label* button appears. Just push it, and if all went well, the label will be 'attached'.

Reviewer: Remember to break lines on the line length. What happens if not `all went well`? Document it.

```suggestion
* When the picking is 'Transferred', a *Create Shipping Label* button appears. Just 
click on it, and if all went well, the label will be 'attached'.
```

.. |badge2| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/licence-AGPL--3-blue.png
    :target: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0-standalone.html
    :alt: License: AGPL-3
.. |badge3| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/github-OCA%2Fdelivery--carrier-lightgray.png?logo=github
    :target: https://github.com/OCA/delivery-carrier/tree/13.0/delivery_ups_oca
    :alt: OCA/delivery-carrier
.. |badge4| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/weblate-Translate%20me-F47D42.png
    :target: https://translation.odoo-community.org/projects/delivery-carrier-13-0/delivery-carrier-13-0-delivery_ups_oca
    :alt: Translate me on Weblate
.. |badge5| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/runbot-Try%20me-875A7B.png
    :target: https://runbot.odoo-community.org/runbot/99/13.0
    :alt: Try me on Runbot

|badge1| |badge2| |badge3| |badge4| |badge5| 

This module adds `UPS <https://ups.com>`_ to the available carriers.

It allows you to register shippings, generate labels, read shipping states and
cancel shipments using UPS webservice, so no need of exchanging any kind of file.

**Table of contents**

.. contents::
   :local:

Configuration
=============

To configure this module, you need to:

> #. Add options to your UPS carrier

Reviewer: I don't get this sentence. And I don't see an explanation of which data is needed to be filled, among some explanation on how to get such credentials.

Author: It's not necessary now.

#. Add a carrier account with delivery type ``ups`` and fill in your credentials

Usage
=====

You have to set the created shipping method in the delivery order to ship:

> * In the delivery order form go to *Additional Info* tab and choose the UPS shipping

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the delivery order form, go to *Additional Info* tab and choose the UPS shipping
```

>   method you created as carrier and the service and product code.

Reviewer: Again `service and product code` is mentioned, and I didn't see such fields, but even more, this should be at carrier level, not delivery order level.

Author: It's not necessary now.

> * You will be only able to choose this if the state of the delivery is "Ready to Transfer".

Reviewer: I put a comment about this before that has been ignored.

Author: It's not necessary now.

> 

Reviewer: No need to put here an empty line. It's only needed on RST when changing the indentation.

> * When the picking is 'Transferred', it appears a *Create Shipping Label* button. Just push it, and if all went well the label will be 'attached'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When the picking is 'Transferred', a *Create Shipping Label* button appears. Just push it, and if all went well, the label will be 'attached'.
```

And I also put some comments about this not being automatic.

> * When the picking is 'Cancel' automatically cancel too in UPS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When the delivery order is cancelled, it's automatically cancelled too in UPS.
```

> * According to delivery_state addon cron exists from auto state update according from UPS (only if checked "Tracking state update sync" in carrier).

Reviewer: Don't use too much technical words, and put a reference about "Tracking state update sync" in configure section:

```suggestion
* If you have "Tracking state update sync" checked in the shipping method, a periodical state check will be done querying UPS services.
```

Known issues / Roadmap
======================

> * support international forms

Reviewer: First letter upper

* support package service options

Bug Tracker
===========

Bugs are tracked on `GitHub Issues <https://github.com/OCA/delivery-carrier/issues>`_.
In case of trouble, please check there if your issue has already been reported.
If you spotted it first, help us smashing it by providing a detailed and welcomed
`feedback <https://github.com/OCA/delivery-carrier/issues/new?body=module:%20delivery_ups_oca%0Aversion:%2013.0%0A%0A**Steps%20to%20reproduce**%0A-%20...%0A%0A**Current%20behavior**%0A%0A**Expected%20behavior**>`_.

Do not contact contributors directly about support or help with technical issues.

Credits
=======

Authors
~~~~~~~

* Hunki Enterprises BV

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Holger Brunn <mail@hunki-enterprises.nl> (https://hunki-enterprises.nl)

> * `Tecnativa <https://www.tecnativa.com>`_:

Reviewer: Have we added enough code to be co-authors?

   !! changes will be overwritten.                   !!
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

.. |badge1| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/maturity-Production%2FStable-green.png
    :target: https://odoo-community.org/page/development-status
    :alt: Production/Stable
.. |badge2| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/licence-AGPL--3-blue.png
    :target: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0-standalone.html
    :alt: License: AGPL-3
.. |badge3| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/github-OCA%2Fdelivery--carrier-lightgray.png?logo=github
    :target: https://github.com/OCA/delivery-carrier/tree/13.0/delivery_ups_oca
    :alt: OCA/delivery-carrier
.. |badge4| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/weblate-Translate%20me-F47D42.png
    :target: https://translation.odoo-community.org/projects/delivery-carrier-13-0/delivery-carrier-13-0-delivery_ups_oca
    :alt: Translate me on Weblate
.. |badge5| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/runbot-Try%20me-875A7B.png
    :target: https://runbot.odoo-community.org/runbot/99/13.0
    :alt: Try me on Runbot

|badge1| |badge2| |badge3| |badge4| |badge5| 

This module adds `UPS <https://ups.com>`_ to the available carriers.

> Register shipping, generate label, read shipping state and cancel shippment by webservices.

Reviewer: Remember to split lines with the same 80 cols criteria on text files for better diff reading:

```suggestion
It allows you to register shippings, generate labels, read shipping states and 
cancel shipments using UPS webservice, so no need of exchanging any kind of file.
```

To configure this module, you need to:

#. Add options to your UPS carrier

> #. Go to *Inventory > Configuration* and check "Delivery Packages" option.

Reviewer: Why do you need this?

Author: Sorry, it's not necessary.

#. Add a carrier account with delivery type ``ups`` and fill in your credentials

Usage
=====

> You have to set Ups carrier in the stock picking you want to ship:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have to set the created shipping method in the delivery order to ship:
```

>  * In the stock picking form go to *Additional Info* tab and choose Ups as carrier and the service and product code. You only be able to choose this if the state of the picking is 'Ready to Transfer.

Reviewer: Don't forget these are user instructions, not developer ones, so use UI terminology:
```suggestion
* In the delivery order form go to *Additional Info* tab and choose the UPS shipping
  method you created as carrier and the service and product code.
* You will be only able to choose this if the state of the delivery is "Ready to Transfer".
```
Another thing is that the choosing should be done also on state "Partially available".

Reviewer: Also service code is defined on the carrier and should be in CONFIGURE.rst.

>  * When the picking is 'Transferred', it appears a *Create Shipping Label* button. Just push it, and if all went well the label will be 'attached'

Reviewer: Put instructions for checking the delivery state (although I think there's a general cron for this, but it worths to mention all these aspects).

No automatic label generation? Isn't this an option on other carriers?

Mention also about cancelling.

Other thing: what about pricing?

Author: Some explanation added to clarify some of these things.

I don't understand about "_what about pricing?_". Can you get a example in some addon to understand it? (Actually, creation shipping process return price although we don't use in anywhere).

Reviewer: On sales order, you are able to get the rate for the shipping. There's a method for that (not sure if `_rate_<carrier_code>` or similar)
